first blog 

Love for butter chicken always been there from childhood. I have tasted butter chicken of various restaraunts in delhi.
But after visiting Moti Mahal restaraunt in old delhi,daryaganj. I came to know an interesting fact about this exclusive restaraunt.
Butter chicken has very humble origins, and was born far closer to home. It's a story before india got freedom, a small sweet shop in Peshawar called Mukhey da Dhaba,
owned by an elderly gentleman called Mokha Singh. A Worker of Mokha Singh young Kundan Lal Gujral worked, where he helped invent the tandoori chicken that we all love.
There came a time when Mokha Singh’s health deteriorated and he eventually sold the shop to Kundan Lal Gujral who renamed it as Moti Mahal.
Intitialy he helped in inventing Tandoori chicken and realised that the Tandoori Chicken hanging on the seekhs above the tandoor all day would tend to dry out if unsold.
then he came up with the brilliant idea of creating a basic gravy with tomatoes, butter, cream and some spices to immerse the Tandoori Chicken pieces in, 
helping them regain moisture and become palatable again. And thus, the Butter Chicken was born. When India was partitioned, KL Gujral moved to Delhi
and so did Moti Mahal, with Butter Chicken and Tandoori Chicken in town. A Small outlet grew very fast and after 70 years, It has various branch across delhi and now it is
manage by KL Gujral Grandson. It's a small insight about butter chicken which we never heard. If you like this Blog please share it with your family and friends.



Foodtrivia is a blog where I will share some interesting facts Related to Food. I love to explore various cuisines and trivia related to it. 
I hope people would love some unheard stories which are related to food. 
I have divided the blog into five categories Indian, Continental, Chinese, French Cuisine and Mexican.


second Blog

According to popular tradition, in 1889, 28 years after the unification of Italy, 
during a visit to Naples of Queen Margherita of Savoy, wife of King Umberto I, 
chef Raffaele Esposito of Pizzeria Brandi and his wife created  a pizza resembling the colors of the 
Italian flag, red (tomato), white (mozzarella) and green (basil). They named it after the Queen - Pizza Margherita.

Descriptions of such a pizza recipe, however, can be traced back to at least 1866 in  Francesco DeBouchard book “Customs and Traditions of Naples” -  (Vol II, p.. 124). 
There he describes the most popular pizza toppings of the time which included one with cheese and basil, often topped with slices of mozzarella.
Whatever the real origins of this pizza recipe are, all we know for sure is that Raffaele Esposito's version for Queen Margherita was the one that made it popular. 
Since then it has grown into one of the most recognisable symbol of Italian food culture in the world.




One thing that came into my mind when I think about pizza is it's Authenticated Taste. The origins of pizza came from Italy. 
It has various stories and fact related to it. But there's an interesting story behind the invention of Margherita pizza, According to popular tradition in 1889,
28 years after the unification of Italy. During a visit to Naples, Queen Margherita of Savoy, wife of King Umberto I, 
Chef Raffaele Esposito of Pizzeria Brandi and his wife created a pizza resembling the colors of the Italian flag, red (tomato), white (mozzarella) and green (basil). 
They named it after the Queen - Pizza Margherita.

Whatever the real origins of this pizza recipe are, all we know for sure is that Raffaele Esposito's version of Queen Margherita was the one that made it popular. 
Since then it has grown into one of the most recognizable symbol of Italian food culture in the world. Our youth generation savors the taste of pizza because of this brilliant Concoction. 
I think most of us never heard this story behind the invention of Pizza Margherita. I hope this small piece of information about Pizza Margherita will rejoice some of your moments related to it. 
If you like this Blog please share it with your friends and family.





potato chips

The potato chip was invented in 1853 by George Crum. Crum was a Native American/African American chef at the 
Moon Lake Lodge resort in Saratoga Springs, New York, USA. French fries were popular at the restaurant and 
one day a diner complained that the fries were too thick. Although Crum made a thinner batch, the customer was still 
unsatisfied. Crum finally made fries that were too thin to eat with a fork, hoping to annoy the extremely fussy customer. 
The customer, surprisingly enough, was happy - and potato chips were invented!
Crum's chips were originally called Saratoga Chips and potato crunches. 
They were soon packaged and sold in New England - Crum later opened his own restaurant.



Vada Pav

Famous Vada pav tale started in Bombay (Presently Mumbai), According to various food history counterclaims. 
This dish credit goes to Ashok Vaidya, who ran a small stall of vada pav just outside Dadar station. Initially he opened his stall to sell poha and vadas, 
but one day he decided to put vada inside pav. After that rest is the history, it became quite popular among people and one can easily consumed it on-the-go.
He served Vada pav with red chutney that include coconut, peanuts, Chillies, Garlic and tamarind pulp.
 


 
Since Dadar was an important station, it was constantly spilling over with hordes of commuters. In a moment of culinary innovation, 
Vaidya reportedly came up with this recipe in 1971 to satiate the hunger of the hustling crowd in desperate need of a snack that could be consumed on-the-go.
In a way, it was like his own version of fast food. He served it up with fiery red chutney that could include coconut, 
peanuts, chillies, garlic and tamarind pulp. Safe to say, the rest is history.

Even Shiv Sena cheif Late.Balasaheb Thackrey helped ashok vaidya in flourishing his small vada pav business.
Ward officers of dadar never did anything to him. Furthermore,vaidya served his vada pav in shiv sena meetings in Mumbai.
One day Balasaheb asked him to come his house (Matoshree) but due to security reasons, Vaidya couldn't meet with Balasaheb.




The samosa is one of the most famous snacks in India today. However, its origins can be traced back to Central Asia. 
If legend is to be believed, various traders travelled to India using ancient trade routes from Central Asia. 
Since heavy food could not be carried around, they started cooking small, 
crisp mince-filled triangles that were easy to make at the campfire during night halts, 
and were also convenient to be packed into saddlebags as snacks for the next day’s journey. 
Eventually, it found its way to India through spice route travellers.
However, since most Indians were vegetarians, they replaced the mince filling with vegetables or potatoes. 
Soon, the samosa was a huge hit, both among the locals and kings, as one of the theories goes. 
It is also said that the triangular potato/meat-filled savoury dish actually has origins in the Middle East. 
Originally called ‘sambosa’, the Indian samosa was actually introduced to the country sometime between the 13th and 14th century by traders of the Middle East.












